
Java is a general-purpose computer programming language that is concurrent, class-based, object-oriented etc.
Java applications are typically compiled to bytecode that can run on any Java virtual machine (JVM) regardless of computer
architecture.The latest version is Java 8.

There are few things which must be clear before setting up the environment

    1.JDK(Java Development Kit) : JDK is intended for software developers and includes development tools such 
    as the Java compiler, Javadoc, Jar, and a debugger.
    2.JRE(Java Runtime Environment) : JRE contains the parts of the Java libraries required to run Java programs
    and is intended for end users. JRE can be view as a subset of JDK.
    3.JVM: JVM (Java Virtual Machine) is an abstract machine. It is a specification that provides runtime environment 
    in which java bytecode can be executed. JVMs are available for many hardware and software platforms. 
 
 main method: In Java programming language, every application must contain a main method whose signature is:

public static void main(String[] args)

public: So that JVM can execute the method from anywhere.
static: Main method is to be called without object. The modifiers public and static can be written in either order.
void: The main method doesn't return anything.
main(): Name configured in the JVM.
String[]: The main method accepts a single argument: 
          an array of elements of type String.
          
          
 System is a class in the java.lang package.
 out is a static member of the System class, and is an instance of java.io.PrintStream.
 println is a method of java.io.PrintStream . This method is overloaded to print message to output destination, 
 which is typically a console or file.
 
 /* This is a simple Java program.
   FileName : "HelloWorld.java". */
class HelloWorld
{
    // Your program begins with a call to main().
    // Prints "Hello, World" to the terminal window.
    public static void main(String args[])
    {
        System.out.println("Hello World");
    }
}

Output : Hello World

 Compiling the program :

    After successfully setting up the environment, we can open terminal in both Windows/Unix and can go to directory where the 
    file – HelloWorld.java is present.
    Now, to compile the HelloWorld program, execute the compiler – javac , specifying the name of the source file on the 
    command line, as shown:

    javac HelloWorld.java 

    The compiler creates a file called HelloWorld.class (in present working directory) that contains the bytecode version of
    the program. Now, to execute our program, JVM(Java Virtual Machine) needs to be called using java, specifying the name of 
    the class file on the command line, as shown:

    java HelloWorld

    This will print “Hello, World” to the terminal screen.

